Kanto Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! HeartGold and SoulSilver FireRed and LeafGreen Gold and Silver Official artwork of Kanto for Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! , HeartGold and SoulSilver , FireRed and LeafGreen and Gold , Silver and Crystal' . Information Professor Samuel Oak Pokémon № of Pokémon 153 Starter Pokémon Bulbasaur Charmander Squirtle Pikachu P E Eevee P E Clefairy (presumably) P E Crime organization Team Rocket Kanto is a region introduced in Generation I . Contents 1 Description 2 Cities and towns 2.1 Pallet Town 2.2 Viridian City 2.3 Pewter City 2.4 Cerulean City 2.5 Vermilion City 2.6 Lavender Town 2.7 Celadon City 2.8 Fuchsia City 2.9 Saffron City 2.10 Cinnabar Island 3 Other locations 3.1 Viridian Forest 3.2 Mt. Moon 3.3 Cerulean Cave 3.4 Rock Tunnel 3.5 Diglett's Cave 3.6 Forest of Pikachu 3.7 Safari Zone 3.8 Seafoam Islands 3.9 Power Plant 3.10 Victory Road 3.11 Indigo Plateau 4 Pokémon League 4.1 Gym Leaders 4.2 Elite Four 4.3 Champion(s) 5 Videos 6 Trivia Description [ ] Kanto as seen in the Generation I games Kanto is the original region introduced in the Pokémon franchise. It was then followed by Johto , Hoenn , Sinnoh , Unova , Kalos , Alola , Galar , and Paldea . It is modeled and named after the Kantō region of Japan , which includes, amongst other cities, the capital Tōkyō, where Game Freak is headquartered. Kanto is the only one that shares its name with a real-world location. The resemblance between the bay formations seen on the in-game map and the actual Sagami Bay, Suruga Bay, and Tokyo Bay formations is particularly striking. Kanto also has some elements of Chūbu. Kanto lies to the east of Johto; they presumably make up a small continent; to the south of Kanto are the Sevii and Orange Islands . Hoenn, introduced in Pokémon Ruby Version and Pokémon Sapphire Version and Pokémon Emerald Version , is supposedly further to the southwest. Routes located wholly within Kanto are numbered 1 to 25; routes 26, 27, and 28 connect Kanto with Johto. Supposedly to the north of this continent is the Sinnoh region. Unova is in a considerable distance away and it's unknown where both it and Kalos are in relation to Kanto. In the first generation of games for the Game Boy , Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version and Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition , Kanto was the only region to explore, featuring a variety of environments, such as urban locales and mountainous, wooded and oceanic routes. In Gold, Silver and Crystal , which introduced Johto as a neighboring region to its west, the player character was able to travel to Kanto (by either steamboat, surfing or the magnet train) travelling between Goldenrod City in Johto and Saffron City in Kanto after completing their journeys through the latter. Since the Generation II games occupied an in-universe timeline a few years after their predecessors, some changes were introduced. In late 2004, Pocket Monsters Red Version and Pocket Monsters Green Version were remade as new titles for the Game Boy Advance called Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen , which incorporated new elements. In late 2018, Pokémon Yellow was remade as two new games for the Nintendo Switch , Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee! . One area of the Kanto region, Saffron City appears in the form of a cityscape battlefield stage in the Super Smash Bros. series , first appearing in Super Smash Bros. , and it is a cityscape battlefield. In Pokémon the Series , the protagonist Ash Ketchum is a resident of Pallet Town , and began his journey by touring Pokémon gyms in Kanto with Misty from Cerulean City and Brock from Pewter City . Season 1 and Season 9 of the anime are set in Kanto. Location names in the anime sometimes differ from those in the games. Season 23 and 24 of the anime is also the set in Kanto as Ash and his new friend Goh from Vermilion City work as research assistants. Cities and towns [ ] Kanto region in the anime . Most of the cities in Kanto, like Generation I games themselves, are named after colors, such as Pewter City , Viridian City , Saffron City , and so on. Pallet Town is the kickoff to the series of colors, as Pallet (Palette) is a collection of colors. Pallet Town [ ] Pallet Town &#160; ( マサラタウン , Masara Taun ? ) is the hometown of the protagonist Ash Ketchum , of the Pokémon anime , and the Red of the Pokémon Adventures . It is also the home of Professor Oak , who gets them started with their first Pokémon , as well as Professor Oak's grandson (the player character-named rival in the games, Gary Oak in the anime, and Blue in Pokémon Adventures ). It is also a hometown to Delia Ketchum , the main protagonist, Ash Ketchum's mother. It is based on Satoshi Tajiri 's hometown, Shimoda. Viridian City [ ] Based on: Hakone Viridian City &#160; ( トキワシティ , Tokiwa Shiti ? ) is the first major city where the player character visits in the games. It has the first Pokémon Centers and Poké Marts found in the game. At the Poké Mart, the player character will receive a package to deliver to Professor Oak in exchange for the Pokédex and 5 Poké Balls . When the player character first arrives, the gym is locked. Once the other seven Gym Leaders are defeated, the Viridian Gym Leader , who is revealed to be Giovanni , the villainous team leader of Team Rocket , will re-open his Ground -type gym. In later games, Blue replaces him. In the Red, Green, and Blue chapter of Pokémon Adventures , Viridian City appeared in " Bulbasaur, Come Home! " when Red and Professor Oak were forced to chase some of the Pokémon, which Red had accidentally set free from the laboratory. Viridian City make a brief appearance in " Make Way for Magmar! ", where local citizens were asking questions about the missing Gym Leader. Red revisited Viridian City in " Drat That Dratini! ", after helping the young girl in the Viridian Forest. Upon hearing the rumors about the missing "invincible" Gym Leader, Red decided to check out the Gym again. Pewter City [ ] Based on: Maebashi Pewter City &#160; ( ニビシティ , Nibi Shiti ? ) is located in the northwest of the region, between Viridian Forest and Mt. Moon . Pewter City is the first available city with a Gym Leader. Brock is the Pewter City Gym Leader and specializes in Rock -type Pokémon. The city has two exits, to the east is Route 3 leading to Route 4 and Mt. Moon and in the south is Route 2 leading to Viridian City. Cerulean City [ ] Cerulean City &#160; ( ハナダシティ , Hanada Shiti ? ) is a seaside city located in the northern Kanto is the third city visited in the region by the protagonist, and the location of the second Gym Leader, Misty . She is a Water -type Trainer, who is in charge of a swimming pool-style arena. It has some remarkable places such as a bike shop and the gym. It is situated near the sea inlet to the north with Saffron City to the south and Mt. Moon to the west. Cerulean City is also visited in the Red, Blue, Green and Yellow chapters of Adventures manga as well as in Zensho manga. Vermilion City [ ] Based on: Yokohama Vermilion City &#160; ( クチバシティ , Kuchiba Shiti ? ) is a large port city that is home to the Electric -type gym leader Lt. Surge . Vermilion City is the only Kanto city to have a port, which houses a luxurious ship known as the S.S Anne . The S. S Anne sails around the world and returns to Vermilion city once in a year. It sails from Olivine town in Johto to Vermilion harbor. In The Pokémon anime the S. S Anne was stink by team rocket. There, the player character will encounter the rival again and battle him. After the player character exits with the HM Cut , the ship will sail away. In FireRed and LeafGreen , after the player character earns the seventh gym badge, the port will be reopened again; it is used to connect the Kanto region with the Sevii Islands . Asides from the harbor, the other exits to the city are Route 11 and Diglett's cave to the east. To the north is Route 6. Lavender Town [ ] Based on: Narita Lavender Town &#160; ( シオンタウン , Shion Taun ? ) is one of the smallest towns in the region. The town is believed to be haunted by Ghost -type Pokémon. Residents of the town include the kind Mr. Fuji , and the Name Rater, who allows the player character to change the nicknames of his or her Pokémon. Celadon City [ ] Based on: Shinjuku , Tokyo Celadon City &#160; ( タマムシシティ , Tamamushi Shiti ? ) is the second largest city in the Kanto Region. It is home to a department store (the largest Poké Mart in Kanto), a hotel, a Game Corner and a mansion. The mansion is notable for having the Game Freak developers inside and being the only legitimate location to obtain an Eevee (only one per-game). The fourth Gym is found in Celadon City and houses Erika and her Trainers, who use mainly Grass -type Pokémon. In the anime , it is mentioned that this city is famous for its perfumes and scents. Erika here is also the manager of a perfume company. Fuchsia City [ ] Based on: Tateyama Fuchsia City &#160; ( セキチクシティ , Sekichiku Shiti ? ) is the southernmost city on the Kanto mainland. It houses the Safari Zone and a Pokémon zoo. Koga is the Fuchsia City Gym Leader , and he uses Poison-type Pokémon. His gym contains invisible walls that force the player character to go around while battling Trainers. In Gold , Silver , and Crystal , he is replaced by his daughter, Janine , since Koga was accepted into the Elite Four . Saffron City [ ] Saffron City &#160; ( ヤマブキシティ , Yamabuki Shiti ? ) is the largest city of Kanto, possibly based on Tokyo. It is most notable for housing Silph Co. , a massive office complex that spans 11 floors. It is also notable for having two separate gyms, though one is unofficial. Cinnabar Island [ ] Based on: Izu Ōshima Cinnabar Island &#160; ( グレンじま or グレンタウン , Guren-jima or Guren Taun ? ) is home to a laboratory and an old, abandoned mansion . The player can go to the laboratory to trade some Pokémon and identify the fossils found in Pewter City and Mt. Moon . The Gym is initially locked; after retrieving the key from the Pokémon Mansion, the player character can challenge the Gym Leader Blaine , a Fire-type Pokémon Trainer. Other locations [ ] Viridian Forest [ ] Viridian Forest &#160; ( トキワのもり , Tokiwa no Mori ? ) is a forest that lies between Viridian City and Pewter City . The woods are filled with a large quantity of Bug Pokémon and Bug-using Trainers. Inside, the Pokémon franchise's mascot, Pikachu, can be found. In Gold , Silver , and Crystal , the forest has been apparantly cut down and the tall grass removed, so wild Pokémon cannot be caught there, anymore. In HeartGold and SoulSilver , Viridian Forest made a return. Mt. Moon [ ] Mt. Moon &#160; ( オツキミやま , Otsukimi-yama ? ) is a mountain based on Mount Akagi that lies between Pewter City and Cerulean City . As it cannot be climbed, player characters must hike through the cave area. It is a three-floor dungeon with multiple paths. At the end of the path, a Super Nerd holds two fossils. After the player character defeats him, he concedes and lets the player character take one fossil, which can become either Omanyte or Kabuto . In the anime, it is shown as a worship place for Clefairy . Cerulean Cave [ ] Near the city is the Cerulean Cave &#160; ( ハナダのどうくつ , Hanada no Dōkutsu ? ) , popularly known as the "Unknown Dungeon" &#160; ( ななしのどうくつ , Nanashi no Dōkutsu ? ) . It is an optional post-game dungeon filled with high-leveled Pokémon and is the home to the strongest legendary Pokémon in Kanto - if not the overall franchise, Mewtwo . The dungeon is so fearsome that a guard blocks the entrance, and will not let the player character through until he or she has beaten the Elite Four. In FireRed and LeafGreen , it cannot be accessed until the player character has repaired the machine on One Island . In Gold , Silver , and Crystal , the entrance has been flooded, and the player character cannot access the location. However, there is an item located in the water where the cave used to be. In HeartGold and SoulSilver , it returned, but only to those who got all 16 Badges . Rock Tunnel [ ] Rock Tunnel &#160; ( イワヤマトンネル , Iwa Yama Tonneru ? ) lit. "rock mountain tunnel" is a pitch-black cave that connects Cerulean City and Lavender Town . Unlike later games, the cave is not completely dark. Therefore, the walls of the cave can still be seen which allows the player character to go through without the use of the HM Flash (though it is extremely difficult otherwise if played on an original Game Boy due to the low-contrast dark green screen). Diglett's Cave [ ] Diglett's Cave is a long tunnel that was dug by wild Diglett and Dugtrio . Its entrances are south of Pewter City and east of Vermilion City. After the Trainer enters Cerulean City, the only foot-path back to Pewter City, Viridian City, and Pallet Town is through this cave. Wild Diglett and Dugtrio can be found in here. Forest of Pikachu [ ] Forest of Pikachu was a small forest clearing that had clans of Pikachu . It was only in the anime, specifically " Pikachu's Goodbye ". The main protagonist Ash Ketchum and the group came here as they find many other Pikachu in their adventure. Ash also decides to leave his Pikachu in this forest thinking it was good for it to stay here but changes his mind later. Safari Zone [ ] The Safari Zone &#160; ( サファリゾーン , Safari Zōn ? ) is a wide-open area in Fuchsia City where the player character can play a Pokémon-catching game. For a small fee, the player characters are given thirty Safari Balls (a special type of Poké Ball that is green) and may capture Pokémon in the Safari Zone until they have walked 500 steps. player characters may not use Pokémon of their own to battle the wild Pokémon in the Safari Zone, and therefore have to face them, themselves (a first for the franchise). Several rare species of Pokémon such as Chansey are found nowhere else. In Gold , Silver , and Crystal , the Safari Zone is not available because Baoba is on vacation. It reappears in FireRed and LeafGreen , but the option to save while there is removed; this could have been because of the Glitch City bug. In HeartGold and SoulSilver , the Safari Zone was replaced with Pal Park and Baoba's granddaughter took over his office. Seafoam Islands [ ] The Seafoam Islands &#160; ( ふたごじま , Futago-jima ? ) are a set of caves between Fuchsia City and Cinnabar Island . The legendary Pokémon Articuno resides in this area. During the second generation , as Cinnabar Island was destroyed by a volcano, Blaine moved his gym to the Seafoam Islands. Articuno has fled. In HeartGold and SoulSilver , the islands return and so as Articuno. Power Plant [ ] The Power Plant &#160; ( むじんはつでんしょ , Mujin Hatsudensho ? ) lit. "unmanned power plant" is an abandoned building found at the end of a waterway just before the entrance to Rock Tunnel . At the end of the building is the legendary Pokémon Zapdos . In Gold , Silver , and Crystal , the Power Plant has been reactivated and is used to run the Magnet Train. Zapdos, however, is no longer there. Victory Road [ ] The Victory Road (Kanto) &#160; ( チャンピオンロード , Chanpion Rōdo ? ) is a cave that holds the only way to the Indigo Plateau, accessed to the west and north of Viridian City . The protagonist must have all eight badges to enter. Victory Road contains many relatively high-level Pokémon, including the legendary Pokémon Moltres in the original Red and Blue versions of Pokémon . However, in the FireRed and LeafGreen remakes, Moltres has been moved to the Mt. Ember on the Sevii Islands. Indigo Plateau [ ] The Indigo Plateau &#160; ( セキエイこうげん , Sekiei Kōgen ? ) is the headquarters of the Pokémon League , located in northwest Kanto. In order to reach Indigo Plateau, Trainers must collect all eight Gym Badges of Kanto or Johto and pass through Victory Road, a cave located at the foot of the Plateau. Trainers face off with the Elite Four and the current Pokémon Champion to become the new Champion. The Elite Four are considered to be the strongest Trainers in the land, and each Trainer specializes in a different type of Pokémon. The player character must defeat all four Trainers and the Champion consecutively to defeat the game and be crowned as the new Champion. In the original games and FireRed and LeafGreen , the Champion is the player's rival, Blue , while Generation II and their remakes have Lance - originally one of the Elite Four, in this position. In Pokémon Let's Go, Pikachu and Eevee! , however, the standing Champion is Trace rather than Blue. In the anime, an annual Pokémon League tournament is held in Indigo Stadium; the last Trainer standing is crowned Champion. It is unknown whether or not the Champion faces off against the Elite Four afterwards. The Pokémon Village, a resort which caters to the Pokémon Trainers and other people who have come to watch the competition, is located at the center of the Plateau. If Pokémon Contests are held in Kanto, the annual Grand Festival will be held here as well. Pokémon League [ ] Gym Leaders [ ] Name Settlement Type Signature Pokémon Badge Brock Pewter City Rock Boulder Badge Misty Cerulean City Water Cascade Badge Lt. Surge Vermilion City Electric Thunder Badge Erika Celadon City Grass ( ) / / Rainbow Badge Koga (Gen. I, III and VII) Fuchsia City Poison / Soul Badge Janine (Gen. II and IV) Sabrina Saffron City Psychic Marsh Badge Blaine Cinnabar Island (Gen. I, III and VII) Seafoam Islands (Gen. II and IV) Fire / Volcano Badge Giovanni (Gen. I, III and VII) Viridian City Ground ( ) / ( )/ ( Yellow ) / Earth Badge Blue (Gen. II, IV and VII) Mix / / (II) / (IV) Elite Four [ ] Name Type Signature Pokémon Lorelei Ice Bruno Fighting Agatha Ghost Lance Dragon Champion(s) [ ] Name Type Signature Pokémon Blue Mix / / ( / / ) ( Yellow ) Trace Mix / Videos [ ] Trivia [ ] Strangely, Kanto is named after the Japanese region of the same name . Thus, Kanto is the only region that shares its name with a real world place, all other regions to date do not. All locations in Kanto are named after colors with the exception of Pallet Town , as a palette is a group of colors. Another name for Kanto is Indigo. This is due to when the English speaking versions of Red and Blue were released, the name of the region was completely absent from the games and people assumed the name was Indigo, not Kanto. The name Indigo comes from the Indigo Plateau where the Elite Four and Champion reside. Kanto is the only region to appear in every generation in the anime and main series games before Generations V and VI . Kanto has appeared in the most mainline games and generations to date, having appeared in fourteen games (fifteen in Japan) over the course of five generations. Pocket Monsters Red and Green , Pocket Monsters Blue , Pokémon Red and Blue , and Yellow in Generation I ; Pokémon Gold , Silver , and Crystal in Generation II ; Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen in Generation III ; Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver in Generation IV ; Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee! in Generation VII . The adjectival form of Kanto is "Kantonian". Before the final battle at Indigo Plateau, Blue , as the Pokémon Champion, claims that he is the "most powerful Trainer in the world". Since Generation III , this has been disproved, as the title only means the strongest Pokémon Trainer in the region . However, in Generation I , Kanto was the only landmass, and therefore does represent the Pokémon World at the time. v · d · e List of Kanto locations Characters · Pokédex Settlements Cerulean City Cerulean Cave Celadon City Game Corner Rocket Hideout Cinnabar Island Pokémon Mansion Fuchsia City Safari Zone R B Y / FR LG Pal Park HG SS GO Park P E Lavender Town Pokémon Tower Pallet Town Pewter City Saffron City Silph Co. Vermilion City S.S. Anne R B Y / FR LG / P E S.S. Aqua G S C / HG SS Viridian City Viridian Forest Pokémon League Indigo Plateau Routes 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Power Plant 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Seafoam Islands 21 22 23 24 25 26 G S C / HG SS 27 G S C / HG SS 28 G S C / HG SS Tunnels and Mountains Diglett's Cave Mt. Moon Rock Tunnel Victory Road Tohjo Falls G S C / HG SS See also Sevii Islands Johto Hoenn Sinnoh Battle Zone Hisui Unova Kalos Alola Galar Isle of Armor Crown Tundra Paldea Kitakami Terarium Regions v · d · e List of Kanto characters Locations · Pokédex Archer Adventures Carl Ariana Adventures Sham Bill Adventures anime Blue Adventures Gary Oak (anime) Chase Copycat Duplica (anime) Daisy Oak Adventures Elaine Mr. Fuji Dr. Fuji (anime) Giovanni Adventures anime Green Adventures James anime Jessie anime Leaf Adventures Mom Professor Samuel Oak Adventures anime Red Adventures Ash Ketchum (anime) Todd Snap Adventures anime Wilton Adventures Gym Leaders Brock Adventures anime Misty Adventures anime Lt. Surge Adventures anime Erika Adventures anime Koga R B Y / FR LG / P E Adventures anime Janine G S C / HG SS Adventures Sabrina Adventures anime Blaine Adventures anime Giovanni/Blue G S C / HG SS / P E Elite Four and Pokémon Champion Lorelei Adventures Primo (a.k.a. Lorelei; anime) Agatha Adventures anime Bruno Adventures anime Lance Adventures anime Blue/ Trace P E Others Morimoto See also Johto Hoenn Sinnoh Hisui Unova Kalos Alola Galar Paldea Characters v · d · e Regions Core series Kanto Sevii Islands Johto Hoenn Sinnoh Battle Zone Hisui Unova Kalos Alola Galar Isle of Armor Crown Tundra Paldea Kitakami Others Orre Fiore Almia Oblivia Ransei Ferrum Pasio Lental Aeos Island Pokémon the Series Orange Islands Decolore Islands