Professor Oak Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! FireRed and LeafGreen Base article Information Gender Male Hometown Pallet Town , Kanto Family Blue Oak (grandson) Daisy Oak (granddaughter) Samson Oak (cousin) Friends Professor Elm Professor Juniper Occupation Pokémon Professor Appears in Generation I , Generation II , Generation III , Generation IV , Generation VII In other languages Japanese Name オーキド・ユキナリ 博 ( はか ) 士 ( せ ) Official Dr. Yukinari Orchid Literal Ookido Yukinari Hakase Professor Samuel Oak , more commonly simply known as Professor Oak &#160; ( オーキド 博 ( はか ) 士 ( せ ) , Ookido Hakase ? , lit. "Prof. Ohkido" ) is a character introduced in Generation I . Contents 1 Appearance 2 Personality 3 Etymology 4 Biography 4.1 Core series 4.1.1 Generation I and remakes 4.1.2 Generation II and remakes 4.1.3 Generation IV 4.2 Spinoffs 4.2.1 Pokémon Stadium series 4.2.2 Hey You, Pikachu! 4.2.3 Pokémon Snap 4.2.4 Pokémon Puzzle series 4.2.5 PokéROM 4.2.6 Pokémon Channel 4.3 Crossover 4.3.1 Super Smash Bros. Melee 4.4 Other appearances 5 Sprites 5.1 Core series 5.2 Spinoffs 6 Trivia Appearance [ ] Professor Oak is a middle-aged Pokémon Professor with gray hair and sports a light lilac polo shirt underneath his lab coat. He wears a brown belt supporting his beige pants along with matching brown loafers. Personality [ ] Incomplete! This article or section is incomplete. You can help the Pokémon Wiki by completing it. Oak is eccentric, as he not only studies Pokémon, but has invented several unique gadgets, used especially within the spinoff games. Etymology [ ] The last name Oak could possibly originate from the "oak" tree. His Japanese surname, Ookido, possibly comes from "orchid". Biography [ ] Core series [ ] Generation I and remakes [ ] Professor Oak introducing himself in the intro of Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version In Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version , Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition , and later remakes, Professor Oak is the one who introduces himself and has the player enter their name as well as their rival 's, whose name he somehow forgot. After this, the player's journey begins. Professor Oak lives in Pallet Town . He is absent from his lab until the player attempts to leave town, when he runs up to the player and makes them follow him to his lab. He allows the player to choose a first partner Pokémon . Later on, the player has to enter the Poké Mart in Viridian City , where the store clerk gives them Oak's Parcel , which the player then has to deliver back to Professor Oak. In return, Oak gives the player a Pokédex and five Poké Balls . Throughout the player's journey, Oak sends his assistants out to give items to the player after catching at least a certain number of Pokémon . Professor Oak encountering a wild Pikachu in Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition In Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition , when the player walks into tall grass outside of Pallet Town for the first time, they will encounter a Pikachu . Oak manages to catch the Pikachu and gives to the player, since their rival took the Eevee that was intended for them. The game gives Oak a unique back sprite shown only during the wild Pikachu encounter. In Pokémon FireRed Version and Pokémon LeafGreen Version , Oak provides a tutorial on Pokémon battles when the player is challenged by their rival for the first time, inside of the lab. He also gives the player the National Pokédex once they have caught at least 60 Pokémon. Generation II and remakes [ ] Professor Oak in the opening of Pokémon SoulSilver Version In Pokémon Gold Version and Pokémon Silver Version , Pokémon Crystal Version , and the remakes Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version , Professor Oak is first seen introducing the player to the game at the very start, just as he did in the Generation I games, but he now asks for the time , which was added as a mechanic, as well as player's gender in Pokémon Crystal Version and Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version . Shortly after the player starts their journey, Oak gives them the Pokédex in Route 30 , after they have obtained the Mystery Egg from Mr. Pokémon . At Goldenrod City , Professor Oak co-hosts a radio show with DJ Mary titled Professor Oak's Pokémon Talk , where he talks about Pokémon and their locations. The radio show made Professor Oak famous in the Johto region. He is also friends with Kurt and Professor Elm . In Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version , Oak was given a larger role. He similarly hands out the National Pokédex like in the Sinnoh games, although the criteria is different, since the player has to win against the Elite Four instead. After the player wins against every Johto and Kanto Gym Leader, Oak gives HM08 ( Rock Climb ) to them. Furthermore, after Red is defeated in Mt. Silver , the player can choose one of the three first partner Pokémon from Professor Oak. Lastly, Professor Oak gives the player a Jade Orb if they show him both a Kyogre and a Groudon obtained in Embedded Tower . Generation IV [ ] In Pokémon Diamond Version and Pokémon Pearl Version and Pokémon Platinum Version , Oak appears in the Pokémon Research Lab in Sandgem Town after the player has completed the Sinnoh Pokédex , which he upgrades to the National Pokédex , and gives the Poké Radar app for the Pokétch . From dialogue, Oak is revealed to be good friends with Professor Rowan . The next encounter with Oak is at Pal Park , during the player's first visit there. Oak installs the Trainer Counter app on the player's Pokétch then tells them that he will be staying at Eterna City for some time, also wanting to use the opportunity to research Pokémon native to the Sinnoh region. Oak can next be found at his house, located in the southernmost part of Eterna City. Here, Oak gives an Upgrade to the player, which had apparently been given to him by one of his aides back in to Kanto. Afterward, Oak begins talking about the Legendary Birds — Articuno , Zapdos , and Moltres —after which they can be found roaming the Sinnoh region. One of the event items is Oak's Letter . When the player obtains it, Oak awaits them at Route 224 . Oak shows the white rock and its purpose of one noting what they are most thankful for. The player has to add a note for the Seabreak Path to be revealed, where Shaymin can be found. Spinoffs [ ] Oak has appeared in several spinoff games, namely during Generation I and Generation II , and most of the games base Oak on his appearance in Pokémon the Series . Pokémon Stadium series [ ] In Pokémon Stadium and Pokémon Stadium 2 , Oak runs the Pokémon Lab , where the player can interact with a Generation I game in the core series (as well as Generation II in Pokémon Stadium 2 ) if their Game Pak is connected to a Transfer Pak , allowing for functions such as transferring Pokémon and items. Hey You, Pikachu! [ ] In Hey You, Pikachu! , Oak's newest invention is the PokéHelper , which can translate speech from Pokémon. The player uses it on a Pikachu, who proceeds to befriend them throughout the game. Pokémon Snap [ ] In Pokémon Snap , Oak enlists Todd Snap to help him complete Oak's Pokémon Report , by taking photographs of the Pokémon he encounters in different areas. After the player finishes the stage, Oak evaluates their results. Pokémon Puzzle series [ ] Incomplete! This article or section is incomplete. You can help the Pokémon Wiki by completing it. In Pokémon Puzzle League and Pokémon Puzzle Challenge , Oak retains a role of being a guide to the player. PokéROM [ ] In the PokéROM discs, Oak has a role of being the guide throughout. He moderates the player as they do quizzes and other minigames. Pokémon Channel [ ] In Pokémon Channel , Oak has a major role of running a television network intended for humans and Pokémon alike, and he is the player's guide throughout the game. At the very start, Oak introduces himself to the player, after their TV arrives, and asks the player to be the test audience for several television programs on it. He asks the player to input their name, much like during the introduction of the Generation I and Generation II games. Later on, a Pikachu enters the player's house, and Oak includes it as another member of the test audience. At one point, Pikachu uses Thunderbolt to destroy the TV, so Professor Oak sends some Magnemites to deliver a new one the next day. Oak is directly featured within one of the channels, Prof. Oak Report , where the player can report on recent accomplishments to Oak and save their game progress. Crossover [ ] Super Smash Bros. Melee [ ] There is an obtainable trophy of Professor Oak in Super Smash Bros. Melee . Other appearances [ ] Professor Oak in Pokémon the Series (anime) Professor Oak in Pokémon Adventures (manga) Professor Oak in Pokémon Masters (games) Professor Oak in the Base Set (TCG) Sprites [ ] Core series [ ] Professor Oak's sprite in Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version Professor Oak's sprite in Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition Professor Oak's map sprite in the Generation I games Professor Oak's back sprite in Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition Professor Oak's sprite in Pokémon Gold Version and Pokémon Silver Version and Pokémon Crystal Version Professor Oak's map sprite in the Generation II games Professor Oak's sprite in Pokémon FireRed Version and Pokémon LeafGreen Version Professor Oak's map sprite in Pokémon FireRed Version and Pokémon LeafGreen Version Professor Oak's sprite in Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version Professor Oak's map sprite in Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version Professor Oak's model in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee! Spinoffs [ ] Professor Oak's sprite in Pokémon Stadium and Pokémon Stadium 2 Professor Oak's speech icon in Hey You, Pikachu! Professor Oak's speech icon in Pokémon Snap Professor Oak card in Pokémon Trading Card Game Professor Oak's menu sprite in Pokémon Puzzle Challenge Sprite of Professor Oak with a Nintendo 64 Controller from Pokémon Puzzle League Professor Oak's sprite in Pokémon Channel (Prof. Oak's Report channel) Professor Oak's speech icon in Pokémon Channel Trivia [ ] Professor Oak battling the player in Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version , which is not normally possible In every Generation I game, an unused Trainer data file exists of Professor Oak having a powerful team of five Pokémon consisting of a Tauros , Exeggutor , Arcanine , the starter that opposes your first partner Pokémon at its final form, and Gyarados , between levels 66 to 70. This places him slightly above in raw power to his grandson and Pokémon Champion , Blue (whose levels are 59 to 65), and is therefore the strongest opponent in the original Pokémon games. It was cut from the game for unknown reasons and it can only be accessed through glitches or a cheating device. It is suggested that Oak was originally planned to be battled after defeating Blue in the post-game, similar to Red in Generation II . His own team, however, is notably very similar to that of Blue's from Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version . An in-game hint of Professor Oak's status as a high-ranking Pokemon Trainer, if not former Champion, is in all games except for Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition , he tells the player and rival that he was once a serious Trainer in his youth, which Kanto Elite Four member and close friend Agatha confirms. The e-mail in his lab by the Pokémon League suggests he should visit Indigo Plateau . He can also enter the Hall of Fame room, which itself can only be entered by Champions. In Pokémon Adventures , Professor Oak was the first Champion of the first triennial Indigo Pokémon League tournament while Red is the ninth. v · d · e List of Kanto characters Locations · Pokédex Archer Adventures Carl Ariana Adventures Sham Bill Adventures anime Blue Adventures Gary Oak (anime) Chase Copycat Duplica (anime) Daisy Oak Adventures Elaine Mr. Fuji Dr. Fuji (anime) Giovanni Adventures anime Green Adventures James anime Jessie anime Leaf Adventures Mom Professor Samuel Oak Adventures anime Red Adventures Ash Ketchum (anime) Todd Snap Adventures anime Wilton Adventures Gym Leaders Brock Adventures anime Misty Adventures anime Lt. Surge Adventures anime Erika Adventures anime Koga R B Y / FR LG / P E Adventures anime Janine G S C / HG SS Adventures Sabrina Adventures anime Blaine Adventures anime Giovanni/Blue G S C / HG SS / P E Elite Four and Pokémon Champion Lorelei Adventures Primo (a.k.a. Lorelei; anime) Agatha Adventures anime Bruno Adventures anime Lance Adventures anime Blue/ Trace P E Others Morimoto See also Johto Hoenn Sinnoh Hisui Unova Kalos Alola Galar Paldea Characters v · d · e List of Pokémon Professors Core series Professor Oak ( Kanto ) Adventures anime Professor Elm ( Johto ) Adventures anime Professor Birch ( Hoenn ) Adventures anime Professor Rowan ( Sinnoh ) Adventures anime Professor Juniper ( Unova ) Adventures anime Professor Sycamore ( Kalos ) Adventures anime Professor Kukui ( Alola ) Adventures anime Professor Magnolia ( Galar ) Adventures anime Professor Laventon ( Hisui ) Professor Sada S ( Paldea ) Professor Turo V (Paldea) Others Games Professor Burnet (Alola) Adventures anime Professor Krane ( Orre ) Professor Bellis ( Pasio ) Professor Grand Oak (Pasio) Professor Hastings Professor Willow Professor Neroli Anime Professor Ivy ( Orange Islands ) Professor Cerise (Kanto) Professor Friede (Paldea) Characters